content/blog/carbon_tax/index.md, before:

---
title: "How to Carbon Tax Yourself"
date: "2022-12-04"
description: "Why you should and how you can \"tax\" your 2022 emissions"
tags: [
    "ClimateChange",
    "Musings"
]
cover:
    image: '/blog/carbon_tax/img/forest.jpeg'
    alt: "forest and fog"
---

# What do you mean "carbon tax yourself"?
Donating to a climate-focused organization based on an estimate of your 2022 emissions. 

# Why?

Some governments already have carbon taxes, but [they are too low, according to the International Monetary Fund](https://www.imf.org/en/Blogs/Articles/2022/07/21/blog-more-countries-are-pricing-carbon-but-emissions-are-still-too-cheap):

>Despite the proliferation of carbon pricing schemes, policymakers should do more. To limit global warming, coverage must expand while prices rise from a global average of \\$6 per ton of CO2 today to \\$75 by 2030.

So while a bill like the Inflation Reduction Act *should* be celebrated for its accomplishments, [since it will likely have a positive effect on climate change](https://www.wri.org/update/brief-summary-climate-and-energy-provisions-inflation-reduction-act-2022), there is more work to be done.

>Under a business-as-usual scenario (without the IRA), the U.S. would be expected to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by between 24% and 35% by 2030 compared to 2005 levels. This reduction is a far cry from the 50-52% reduction target set in the latest U.S. nationally determined contribution (NDC). With the passage of the IRA, GHG reductions are expected to reach 31% to 44% by 2030.


# How?
## 1. Fill out this [3-minute survey by CarboTax](http://carbotax.org/) and make note of the final number
I tested it, and it only took 3 minutes and 15 seconds.

## 2. Pick a social cost of carbon
Even when a nation puts a price on carbon it is often too low compared to the true [externalities](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/e/externality.asp) caused by pollution, often called the [social cost of carbon](https://www.rff.org/publications/explainers/social-cost-carbon-101/). 
### Some Options
The cost varies greatly, but most of us tax ourselves at $0/tCO2, so picking any number is a step in the right direction.

| Estimate                  | Social Cost per Metric Ton | Source                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|---------------------------|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Previous Federal Estimate | $51               | [Energy Wire](https://www.eenews.net/articles/epa-floats-sharply-increased-social-cost-of-carbon/#:~:text=That%20document%20estimates%20the%20social,future%20impacts%20of%20climate%20change.) |
| EPA's New Proposal        | $190              | [Energy Wire](https://www.eenews.net/articles/epa-floats-sharply-increased-social-cost-of-carbon/#:~:text=That%20document%20estimates%20the%20social,future%20impacts%20of%20climate%20change.) |
| RFF + UC Berkely          | \\$44-413 ("Preferred Mean": \\$185)          | [Nature](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-022-05224-9)                                                                                                                                    |
## 3. Optional: If applicable, subtract your state's current price of carbon
[Twelve states have some sort of carbon pricing](https://www.c2es.org/document/us-state-carbon-pricing-policies/#:~:text=Those%20states%20are%20California%20and,Greenhouse%20Gas%20Initiative%20(RGGI).) but it can be difficult to discern what the price of carbon is, especially with states that use cap and trade instead of a true carbon tax. I was unable to find a reliable source that provided state-by-state prices on carbon. 
## 4. Calculate your tax for the previous year
$$ tax = x * (y-z)$$
where:

- $x$: Tonnes of CO2 from step #1 
- $y$: Cost from step #2
- $z$: Cost from step #3 

## 5. Where to donate the "tax"?
I've laid out a couple of climate-focused charities, but I would encourage you to do additional research to understand if your charity is having the effect it says it does on climate change. 
- [Citizen's Climate Lobby](https://citizensclimatelobby.org/)
	- [Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/CitizensClimateLobby/)
	- [Accomplishments](https://citizensclimatelobby.org/about-ccl/accomplishments/)
	- [Annual Report](https://citizensclimatelobby.org/about-ccl/annual-report/)
	- [Donate](https://citizensclimatelobby.org/donate/)
- [Enviornmental Voter Project](https://www.environmentalvoter.org/)
	- [Impact Report](https://www.environmentalvoter.org/sites/default/files/documents/2021-impact-report.pdf)
	- [Donate](https://www.environmentalvoter.org/donate)


# Is this a true carbon tax?
No, instead this is a fun data-driven way to be mindful of your emissions and give to organizations that will help reduce the harm they have caused. A true carbon tax would be facilitated by a government and would likely include a dividend.

Additonal info on Carbon Taxes:
- [Basic Explainer from the Citizens' Climate Lobby](https://citizensclimatelobby.org/basics-carbon-fee-dividend/)
- [Detailed Wikipedia Page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon_fee_and_dividend.)

[Discuss on Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=34221170)
[Discuss on Mastodon](https://mas.to/@noah_ford/109640164728723330)

Commit message:

carbon tax article update based on reddit comment

content/blog/carbon_tax/index.md, after:

---
title: "How to Carbon Tax Yourself"
date: "2022-12-04"
description: "Why you should and how you can \"tax\" your 2022 emissions"
tags: [
    "ClimateChange",
    "Musings"
]
cover:
    image: '/blog/carbon_tax/img/forest.jpeg'
    alt: "forest and fog"
---
**_Update, 2023-01-06:_**

Thank you to [u/PlatosCaveSlave on Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/CitizensClimateLobby/comments/104k4m2/comment/j36wwzr/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3) for the great point about the affordability of this method of carbon "taxing":

> While that's great if you are wealthy... there is co [no] way I could afford to do this. And also how about the fact the burden of responsibility here should be on huge corps to paybfornthis [pay for this]. Not everyday people.

This is a method that has worked great for myself and my family's situation, but donations to climate-focused organizations are just one of the **many** ways to affect change. 

Volunteering, spreading the word about the effects of climate change, and reducing your CO2 emissions can have just as large of an impact - if not more - on the future of this planet.

---

# What do you mean "carbon tax yourself"?
Donating to a climate-focused organization based on an estimate of your 2022 emissions. 

# Why?

Some governments already have carbon taxes, but [they are too low, according to the International Monetary Fund](https://www.imf.org/en/Blogs/Articles/2022/07/21/blog-more-countries-are-pricing-carbon-but-emissions-are-still-too-cheap):

>Despite the proliferation of carbon pricing schemes, policymakers should do more. To limit global warming, coverage must expand while prices rise from a global average of \\$6 per ton of CO2 today to \\$75 by 2030.

So while a bill like the Inflation Reduction Act *should* be celebrated for its accomplishments, [since it will likely have a positive effect on climate change](https://www.wri.org/update/brief-summary-climate-and-energy-provisions-inflation-reduction-act-2022), there is more work to be done.

>Under a business-as-usual scenario (without the IRA), the U.S. would be expected to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by between 24% and 35% by 2030 compared to 2005 levels. This reduction is a far cry from the 50-52% reduction target set in the latest U.S. nationally determined contribution (NDC). With the passage of the IRA, GHG reductions are expected to reach 31% to 44% by 2030.


# How?
## 1. Fill out this [3-minute survey by CarboTax](http://carbotax.org/) and make note of the final number
I tested it, and it only took 3 minutes and 15 seconds.

## 2. Pick a social cost of carbon
Even when a nation puts a price on carbon it is often too low compared to the true [externalities](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/e/externality.asp) caused by pollution, often called the [social cost of carbon](https://www.rff.org/publications/explainers/social-cost-carbon-101/). 
### Some Options
The cost varies greatly, but most of us tax ourselves at $0/tCO2, so picking any number is a step in the right direction.

| Estimate                  | Social Cost per Metric Ton | Source                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|---------------------------|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Previous Federal Estimate | $51               | [Energy Wire](https://www.eenews.net/articles/epa-floats-sharply-increased-social-cost-of-carbon/#:~:text=That%20document%20estimates%20the%20social,future%20impacts%20of%20climate%20change.) |
| EPA's New Proposal        | $190              | [Energy Wire](https://www.eenews.net/articles/epa-floats-sharply-increased-social-cost-of-carbon/#:~:text=That%20document%20estimates%20the%20social,future%20impacts%20of%20climate%20change.) |
| RFF + UC Berkely          | \\$44-413 ("Preferred Mean": \\$185)          | [Nature](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-022-05224-9)                                                                                                                                    |
## 3. Optional: If applicable, subtract your state's current price of carbon
[Twelve states have some sort of carbon pricing](https://www.c2es.org/document/us-state-carbon-pricing-policies/#:~:text=Those%20states%20are%20California%20and,Greenhouse%20Gas%20Initiative%20(RGGI).) but it can be difficult to discern what the price of carbon is, especially with states that use cap and trade instead of a true carbon tax. I was unable to find a reliable source that provided state-by-state prices on carbon. 
## 4. Calculate your tax for the previous year
$$ tax = x * (y-z)$$
where:

- $x$: Tonnes of CO2 from step #1 
- $y$: Cost from step #2
- $z$: Cost from step #3 

## 5. Where to donate the "tax"?
I've laid out a couple of climate-focused charities, but I would encourage you to do additional research to understand if your charity is having the effect it says it does on climate change. 
- [Citizen's Climate Lobby](https://citizensclimatelobby.org/)
	- [Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/CitizensClimateLobby/)
	- [Accomplishments](https://citizensclimatelobby.org/about-ccl/accomplishments/)
	- [Annual Report](https://citizensclimatelobby.org/about-ccl/annual-report/)
	- [Donate](https://citizensclimatelobby.org/donate/)
- [Enviornmental Voter Project](https://www.environmentalvoter.org/)
	- [Impact Report](https://www.environmentalvoter.org/sites/default/files/documents/2021-impact-report.pdf)
	- [Donate](https://www.environmentalvoter.org/donate)


# Is this a true carbon tax?
No, instead this is a fun data-driven way to be mindful of your emissions and give to organizations that will help reduce the harm they have caused. A true carbon tax would be facilitated by a government and would likely include a dividend.

Additonal info on Carbon Taxes:
- [Basic Explainer from the Citizens' Climate Lobby](https://citizensclimatelobby.org/basics-carbon-fee-dividend/)
- [Detailed Wikipedia Page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon_fee_and_dividend.)

[Discuss on Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=34221170)
[Discuss on Mastodon](https://mas.to/@noah_ford/109640164728723330)
